Hey folks.
And welcome to another video with my face in.
This is because I am going to take you over a recap of what it is that we're doing with co routines.
You've probably used car routines before you may have used them as a bit of kind of magical syntax.
And I want to take you up on why that magical syntax works.
OK.
Let's dive in and have a look at lists and arrays and enumerators.
What's why.
Why do I want to start with this.
Because these are the building blocks of teens now.
Just put courage teens to the side for a minute now because you're not going to understand why I'm talking
about these until I bring it back round.
So let's just talk about I new writers.
What are they why do they exist.
So you've seen I enumerators probably in the context of current teens before but we're going to be using
them differently.
They're the way we're going to be using them as more like lists and arrays.
Now if lists and arrays were Pringles then lists and arrays would be Pringles in a bowl where you can
pick any Pringle that you want from the bowl of Pringles.
On the other hand the Pringles in a tube are like an iron numerator you can only take the top most Pringle
at any given time.
Now this might seem like a loony idea and you might be going why is Sam rambling on about Pringles.
Well Rick thought it was a good idea so blame it on him.
He thought it was a good good analogy.
So the idea is how you can access these less than arrays you can access any way you like iron numerator
is an interface.
And it is restricted to the ways you can access it.
So in fact it is an interface.
As I said and we've used interfaces before and they look the numerator interface basically looks like
this.
It allows you to get the current object.
So this is a getter by the way there's a house written inside an interface is basically just like a
property.
So you do dot current and it gets you the current item in the numerator basically the top most Pringle
and then you can call move to next which basically takes the Pringle out of the packet and consumes
it and you go NOM NOM NOM very tasty and then you add the currents will be the next Pringle on the top
of the pile.
And this you'll notice returns a boolean once it return a boolean because if there are no more Pringles
in the tube when you remove one then it's going to return false.
Basically it's going to say I cannot take anymore Pringles out this tube.
It's empty.
You need to buy another Pringle cheap.
So how do we use I enumerators when not talking about Pringles.
So this is my hungry child function carrying on with the analogy that we had previously.
We're going to have an iron numerator that returns types of Pringle so it returns a Pringle class single
Pringle class.
So we've got this Pringles tube we're calling The get Pringles method to do that.
I'm going to talk about what that is and in a second.
And what we can do is we can do a while loop over the Pringles tube.
So this is a bit like doing it for each Pringle in an in in enemies.
For each Pringle and brindle tube is what I mean to say that.
And while we say basic while we have more Pringles in the tube we move next we try and take a Pringle
out of the tube and then we can get the current Pringle which is the one at the top and we can eat that
Pringles.
So that's how I animators work basically allowing us to pop items off that Pringles tube as it were
now how do we build the Pringles.
Because we've got this get Pringles function.
How do we return an iron numerator.
Well this is one straightforward way is that we can take just a list create a list of Pringles first
and foremost.
We can iterate create a full loop in this case and bring a full loop of 1000 and I can create new Pringle
I can stamp a serial number on the Pringle.
This will be important later on and I can add the Pringle to the Pringles tube list and then at the
end of my function I can turn a list into an iron numerator because if you think about it a list is
more powerful than an iron numerator and can definitely implement the iron numerator interface so you
can just convert it into an iron numerator and then it just get access it gets accessed one by one so
this is all well and good.
That's if you want to build your entire set of Pringles before you start.
But one of the really cool things about iron numerator is that it allows you to lazily build Pringles.
So we're going to talk about yield return and how it can make us allow us to create essentially an infinite
Pringles tube.
So the get Pringles method let's start in the same way it still returns an iron numerator which contains
Pringles basically.
And how do we do this.
Well still got that full loop of creating 1000 Pringles but instead we create that new Pringle we stamp
the serial number as before but we yield return the Pringle.
That's the one item and what's going on here is that when we yield return we are then waiting for the
code that called us to call move next.
And then it will carry on executing this loop but it only executes up to the first yield return until
move next is cool is pretty cool.
It's actually pausing this function Midway as we are executing it basically.
So it's quite cool piece of C sharp language feature so let's what I've done here is I've unrolled the
loop so you can see that we've got the get Pringles and we're doing a move next get current Pringle
Eat Move next get current Pringle eat.
So this would go on and on but for now we've just unrolled it three times and similarly we've unroll
the loop three times here.
So let's just have a look at what the execution flow would be doing.
So first of all we execute to the move next and nothing has happened inside get Pringles then we call
move next.
So it goes to get Pringles.
No sir it didn't do it when we could get Pringles initially.
It's doing it now when we called move next it executes down to the first yield return and then returns
execution flow back to the hungry child function where we proceed to get the current Pringle and eat
it and go to the next move next which then goes and notice it doesn't start from the top of the function
but starts from where we left off from this yield return it goes and carries on executing and it's remembered
all of the variables what stage all the variables were at.
Which is pretty neat little trick and go back and so on and so forth.
Now what could happen at any point is the hungry child could get bored and run off and the AI in numerator
or the get Pringles method would remember where we left off which is pretty cool.
And if the child came back and continued consuming at a later date then we would be none the wiser in
this method we would just have waited longer but we would have carried on remembering all the state
that we were in.
So that's pretty cool.
And you'll notice that that's something something what like some types of method that we want to write
we want to be able to pause and wait for two seconds for example.
So that is what unity have realised is that you can use this iron numerator sat up with yield returns
to create yourself very cool functionality with cow routines so let's have a recap of what the functionality
of car routines actually is.
So you need to call start co routine on a method that has a return type of iron numerator.
And now you can see that this iron numerator is really just a Pringles tube full of these kinds of instructions
telling it to wait for seconds wait for fixed update and wait for seconds.
So what's going on on Unity's end why has it got it set up like this.
Well this is kind of simplified version of how coatings might work on the engine side.
So unity would keep a list of iron numerator enumerators the core routines and the call this the coating
directory and start a new stock her routine would look something like this basically we add it to the
directory.
That's all that is all start carotene does it adds it to the data directory but every update unity is
going to check through all of the running coatings all the courage teens in that directory and is going
to say has it is it ready has executed enough so it's going to look at the current top value so that's
going to be something like a wait for seconds instruction and say have I waited already two seconds
since this instruction was returned to me.
If so if we have waited enough then we can call move next on the coating and the side effect of that
is that it's going to execute the code after the yield return.
So it's going to execute the code after the wait for seconds.
So it does exactly what we wanted to do wait for seconds and then moves on.
So that's basically the idea.
It kind of goes and calls move next when we have waited enough.
And obviously unity has more complexity than this because you can wait for all sorts of things like
fixed update and so on and so forth.
But this is the crux of how they are working.
So I would like to challenge you to have a little think about why we use I enumerators think of at least
in multiple use cases a couple of one of which is going to be the coatings of course explain the carotene
use case but think of some others as well what other use cases can you think of for I enumerators and
what makes I enumerate is good for this particular use case that you're thinking up.
This is the end of the video now and I would like you to go to the share link and share your answers
to this iron numerator challenge.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture where we'll actually be using these co routines
to run code between levels.
I will see that.